---
editor_options: 
  markdown: 
    wrap: 72
---

### What is climate adaptation?

<span style="font-size:18px;"> Climate adaptation is a response to the effects or impacts of climate change based on ecological, social, or economic needs of communities. 

<span style="font-size:18px;"> The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change (IPCC) identifies three main categories of climate adaptation
options, which are further divided into sub-categories: (1) structural
and physical options, (2) social options, and (3) institutional options.

<span style="font-size:18px;"> Some examples include:\
*•* Upgrading buildings to insulate them and install efficient cooling
and air filtration systems; increasing shade and drought-resistant
landscaping in schoolyards

<img src="Schoolyard.jpg" alt="Example of school with shade features and drought-resistant
landscaping" width="45%">


<span style="font-size:18px;"> *•* Updating school curricula to help
students and their communities understand what they can do to build a
more resilient future and provide resources to take climate action

<img src="climate_ed.jpeg" alt="Climate education in action in the
classroom" width="45%">


<span style="font-size:18px;"> *•* Working with educational institutions
to commit to sustainable frameworks

<img src="school_change.png" alt="Cycle of educational commitments, climate, and change" width="45%">

</span>

<br>

### Why schools and climate adaptation?

<span style="font-size:18px;"> Increasing our understanding of climate
hazard risks at a local scale could enhance our abilities to cope with
disasters in our communities. Disasters related to climate change are an
intergenerational issue and can disrupt schools. More frequent extreme
weather events will increase the likelihood that schools will need to
respond to climate-driven emergencies and public health issues. This
also negatively affects student learning, school facilities, access to
much-needed resources, and district budgets.

<span style="font-size:18px;"> Additionally, climate change
disproportionately impacts communities in California. Schools that serve
more historically under resourced populations will likely be more
severely impacted.

<br>

### Where can I find additional resources?

<span style="font-size:18px;"> Here are some kid- and teenager-friendly
resources that have been vetted by climate scientists and science
educators.

<span style="font-size:18px;"> *•*
[CLEAN](https://cleanet.org/index.html) is a database of resources
supported by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.

<span style="font-size:18px;"> *•* [Subject to
Climate](https://subjecttoclimate.org/news) offers news articles and
lesson plans written for fifth graders and up.

<span style="font-size:18px;"> *•* [The New York Times's Learning
Network](https://www.nytimes.com/2021/11/04/learning/lesson-plans/resources-for-teaching-about-climate-change-with-the-new-york-times.html?action=click&module=RelatedLinks&pgtype=Article)
curates kid-friendly material that's designed for teachers but may also
be helpful for parents. Start with their [Climate Change Guide for
Kids](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2021/04/18/climate/climate-change-future-kids.html)

<span style="font-size:18px;"> To see how California is doing overall,
check out this [summary of California
actions](https://www.georgetownclimate.org/adaptation/state-information/california/completed-goals.html).
You can dig further by looking into whether your local jurisidiction is
working on a climate adaptation plan. This information is typically
found on your local jurisdiction's planning department website.

<br> <br>
